hi everyone I'm daveed and I work as a
software engineer in peer-to-peer
applications at a very cool place all
four collapse we build technologies
protocols to make the web better and
today I want to talk to you about one of
those protocols called I PFS it is going
to be a very long talk so I'm going to
give you a run-through before hand and
explain what i'm going to talk during
this 15-minute presentation it's going
to be something so before going into
IVFs i want to make sure that we are all
settled in the same friend of mine of
all the internet work works and how we
got to the place where we are today with
the web after that I want to talk about
like bffs the interplanetary file system
and then like no not like a technical
talk to be complete needs to have a cool
technical demo so i'll show you I PFS
working and then i also want to mention
if we have the time for it IPL be the
interplanetary linked data and last but
not the least I want to talk about the
IP fest community how it works all these
projects are developed and if I cue to
be part of it so let's get started with
a quick preamble so it's kind of like
remarkable all we change in four to five
decades several times the way that we
communicate like even starting even a
very beginning like in 1960 when ARPANET
appear like the first packet switched
Network we finally had a way to like
obliviate operators at all and just have
a way to communicate from one machine to
another machine without having like have
mechanical contractions winking secrets
together however these are the problem
rights we had to know the network and
all the network was organized that there
was no way for me to tie us another
machine without knowing the side of the
network this graph from ARPANET it's
kind of like 17 years later but it kind
of like shows or complex a network was
and the amount of knowledge that you had
to have from this network in order to
know which machines are connected where
and now to dial to them
like it if all the little bits in like
in 1974 of the park universal / alcohol
was finalized pup was a protocol to
enable like networks to connect to other
networks it was a way to know where a
machine was connected so that I could
route my packets to it it was kind of
like a predecessor to tcp/ip and they
didn't know about tcp/ip at the time but
tcp/ip always really on its early stage
and then 82like eight years later tcp/ip
is introduced as a standard networking
protocol and we got like something like
this right like we have machines going
to the network we finally stopped
worrying about where the neck network
the machine was connected we just have
an address that we could like send our
package to and we knew that the package
would arrive it was also the first time
that real liability on a communication
channel was introduced however I p at
the problem like if i change my machine
from one point to another now i have to
tell the entire network that my IP has
changed and to overcome that dns in part
was introduced and with ems now we have
like the central server where it keeps a
table of all the machines that are
interesting on a network so if a machine
is interesting it gets a record on this
table and if the Machine moves from
place to place we can still referencing
same machine by a name but getting the
latest IP address that the machine is
available on and then like the world
wide web app and like this explosion of
apps came with it like these services
that we use to communicate with our
loved ones to run our businesses to do
our software development basically live
on top of this infrastructure that was
set for us however there is a really
small but big problem which is if we
lose the connectivity to the backbone
all of these services that we use and we
learn to rely on them are gone like
simply they just break and it doesn't
even have to be a full internet blackout
just like a partial disconnection and
these services stop working but the
internet was not developed to work this
way actually like this is a very old
image about like the type of networks
and ARPANET the goal of the project was
like exactly to survive to an attack it
was a military project
where if the u.s. United States was on
an attack and like the communications
was destroyed in part the rest of the
the note should still work and I should
still be able to communicate
nevertheless like we managed to revolve
our network but will evolve to this
centralized architecture and we really
need to make it distributed again like
in simple terms the current model has
some problems and it comes like from a
early decision that made a lot of sense
at the time and made things very simple
which was location addressing as I said
I quit in traditional introduction of
DNS we started referencing things by
name and when we referencing my name
gets as this really nice convenience of
like having a domain name that gets
translated into a machine address and
now we know where the results that we
are looking for exists and this is super
convenient right imagine like a very big
large network we know which machine to
contact and like to get our power from
it was like super convenient the problem
is imagine like this room is the room
that we're sitting here or even like the
entire conference if I want to share a
picture with all of you I need to upload
my picture to some service outside of
the room and now like even though I'm on
the same room as you and I have the
picture I was the one sharing it you
have to all go to this other place to
download the picture and even more
ridiculous is the fact that like every
single one of you will create a separate
connection total all the same bits with
images this might not seem a problem
let's think about video so like a video
from YouTube like a typical one like
medium size 20 megabytes giving an
example of Gangnam style if it has to be
routed to eight hubs to 30 machines we
put a weight in a network of forty eight
gigabytes and like this video has to be
transferred the same bits over and over
again through all these ops and the
internet is actually way bigger it's
more than eight hops from our computer
to the backbone to the servers where
this video is but like gaining the sign
is really a good example because like it
was the most seen video of YouTube of
all time and it has been seen more than
like two and half billion times
and I've converts more or less like a
rough estimate like 530 petabytes so we
are literally like we put a pressure on
the network to transfer 530 petabytes of
the same bits over and over again even
when we play two times on the same
machine and then of course there's the
bandwidth problem like we have seen over
the years that like bandwidth is not
necessarily increasing like there is a
lot of things that have been developed
but bandwidth keeps like the average
keeps being the same and but one thing
in contrast is like the prices of
storage are decreasing and each time we
are creating more data which time we are
creating like better movies now we have
4k like a couple of years ago we just at
1080p and like these things take space
and everyone wants to access our to all
of these things at the same time so if
the storage cost decreases and the
bandwidth stay still what is going to
happen is like the internet looks like
looks slow like in a couple of years
internet will look very slow because it
will take a lot of time to see a video
but what's happening is just like an
event like the network doesn't have
enough bandwidth to cope with all of the
people that are seeing these videos then
there's the problem of agency like this
is like an image from Amazon and Google
and where they have their data center is
located you can see at first sight like
there is clearly areas where that are
privileged areas right like Europe
United States a little bit in Brazil
some parts in Asia they have data center
is very close to them all of the other
parts in the world on level out the
center and like the solution for this is
not like just build more other centers
that doesn't scale we have to have a way
to transfer data around the network and
make it smarter then there's like the
disconnected off one snare use you
probably already experienced this even
in this conference like we want to
access internet we want to collaborate
with our fellow hackers here and like we
want to share our files and I we might
be working on the same file together and
suddenly the Wi-Fi drops and Ike we
cannot to work on the same document
anymore and again the case is the same
like we are all in the same room why the
heck doesn't it work and i'll keep you
go to all the services that are most
commonly used all of these break as
soon as the connection to the backbone
is a fun and these are some of the
problems with the current model like
well bandwidth scenarios the
interference there's a lot of congestion
a lot of people accessing the same data
over and over again over the same radio
spectrum and I the data centers can like
trail can be destroyed is peace can go
down and all we are just traveling and
like you cannot have the same phone
activity in a plane or in the train if
you get in your houses not that yeah so
adding to all these problems there is
also problems with I control like
surprise censorship we have seen that a
couple of times happening in the last
decade where I can government just
decide oh now I'm going to cut the
internet and suddenly like an entire
population cannot access to the
resources that we take for granted today
or even the case of permanence we have
been seeing a lot of services in the web
today just like shutting down and all of
the knowledge of the value that was
created on this those services why can't
I read blogs are just gone because even
if the people that wrote those blog
posts that were those articles move
those articles from one side to another
the links will break so if i have a
website that points to a link it was a
service that will shut down now my link
will not ever work anymore so yeah these
are all the problems and there is more
the fact that our data is not encrypted
at rest the fact if I OT doesn't even
expect the web we people are building
custom protocols because they know the
web as these issues and they need to
move internet connectivity to these
small devices and the web is not working
for them is that a solution for this
yeah and it's called I PFS and this is
what I'm here to talk to you today I PFS
sense for the interplanetary file system
and it is a protocol to upgrade the web
if this is really important like a
protocol to upgrade the web it's not an
alternative web it is not something that
like the users have to buy in like from
the users perspective they don't should
not even notice the difference other
than the cases that the normal internet
will not work and they to start working
once they use I bffs why I PFS why the
interplanetary file system well
so someone had to take internet to Mars
right like you have seen movies about
like science fiction you always like see
these like sad Martian prices they want
the internet to like it is not by chance
that like they always look so sad like
oh my god I want to go online and it
cannot now this is like of course I'm
joking it is for a more serious reason
interplanetary file system is a homage
to GCR Licklider which original ideas
inspired ARPANET he talked a lot about
the intergalactic network and next to
econometrics that's managed to connect
the entire galaxy together and also
because it really means business like we
really means that like we are
challenging ourselves to build a system
that's robust enough to work across
planets and when we bring these like
futuristic technologies to the to the
current day we actually solve a lot of
problems in our own systems and make it
work make these systems work in
scenarios like remote locations
completely spherical scenarios that
otherwise you will not work so I PFS is
really just a connection a connection a
collection of great ideas fix expression
from all the great systems the self
certified system get BitTorrent dhts and
more and we kind of like mesh them
together and make a real I could deploy
this protocol that is really nice to
work with and that web developers at web
architects can use and in simple terms
it offers you two things content
addressing and process addressing so
explaining first while is content
addressing quantity dressing is a way to
identify a file a piece of content
uniquely like you cannot have 20 fires
to the same content this comes from a
thing called the Merkel trees like in
the beginning it was this Michael tree
and the Merkel 3 taught us out to Lin
content in the inimitable way so instead
of like having content like just links
by a memory pointer or just buy a
reference in some database we actually
ash the first content that we want to
link under the second contents and we
store that ash on the second ball the
one that's linking backwards what this
means is like if I give an ash to
someone and if that person receives a
piece of content they can validate
septic
they received was the one that they were
looking for and this is called the
Merkel link the it's called America lane
because this idea was created by ralphs
to merkel in ninety eighty and this was
the first molecule tree and you are
probably used to use marriott fees today
even if you don't know it like it is a
michael three bitcoin is a miracle three
other systems BitTorrent that use this
type of tech this type of merkel linking
to operate and if you heard in the past
that like money doesn't grow on trees i
guess they need ever learn about bitcoin
right so I PFS intuitively it's kind of
like this Merkel forest where all these
other Merkel trees can live together and
just to explain all this is powerful
let's like rewind a little bit and like
remember the golden days of CBS and svn
when entire teams would like stop
working when a server will go down so in
yet CVS svn you are like this central
server and you had like several people
participating and I called reading on
each piece of code and then like if some
of these people got disconnected they
were completely like all of the
participation on development of this
code or if the server was gone like no
one could avoid that day it was like
okay let's drink some coffee or like go
home soon but then get changed
everything you'd said okay let's put
every machine speaking the same protocol
and instead of like talking about
clients and servers I just like everyone
speak the same protocol so when you use
your connection engage you can still put
in your working if the server goes down
you can still continue working and you
cannot collaborate directly with from
machine to machine and like he doesn't
care right like it's like off of the
network can go down and idea the rest of
the network and skill work and when the
the rest of the network comes up then
you cannot converge and like make sure
everything works nicely again an IP FS
is doing this for the entire web so in I
PFS we call this miracle tree structure
the Merkel bag direct a cyclic graph and
in a PFS like data forms always attack
and it's called the Michael day because
the links are the ashes so we
we can represent really any data
structure in a bag like it's just a
graph uniques files and directories can
be represented in a direct and in a deck
keith is already there bitcoin is
already there and we can also build key
value stores in a day there is also
actually people working right now on
building a full SQL semantics on top of
I PFS it's kind of impressive so let's
look at like one specific case and how
can we mount files and directories on a
deck so like files can be deck notes can
be just like a note on the on this deck
dream big files can be split in many
chunks so instead of like having this no
that's really hard to transfer you just
check it often and then I can makes it
easier to transfer and directories can
be an know that points to other nodes
and which can point to other directories
or even more notes so what is translates
to instead of like having the
traditional domain name to location now
you have domain name to ash of the
content and walking again at the network
graph instead of like me asking to one
machine to one central point of
authority for the color that I'm looking
for I can ask the entire network and I
can validate the content it's like was a
big problem like HTTP caching still
sucks today because like the browser's
they have a really hard time
understanding what can they really catch
like cash evaluation is still one of the
biggest problems and it is simply
because I can like open a website the
video player play a video and then like
refresh the place page play again and it
will download the entire file again
because it has no way to tell that those
bites it already has on the machine are
the ones that is looking for but will I
PFS you cannot ask anyone for the
content or even yourself and since you
are like asking by the ass you can see
all like this piece of content does it
ash to the same thing that I'm looking
for yes okay so I already have it cool
so that was Michael day I can cut it
addressing everyone still okay everyone
following awesome thank you let's talk
about process addressing because we want
I PFS to be fully peer-to-peer and not
have to rely any central servers when
needed to find a way to address
processes that exist in the network
independently of where they are
and that was an endeavor that we started
it eventually became a full standalone
project called we peer to peer we peer
to peer is a network stack of I PFS and
it's also a standalone project that you
can use for your own applications you
don't have to buy into I PFS to easily
pizza beer and it offers you things like
authentication encryption discovering
over the roads their routing the network
for forming and content routing and what
does this mean it means like you have a
network it's already established you
have like physical links you have like
virtual links you have a bunch of links
speaking different protocols as a manner
and as long as you know the pier that
you want to dial to as long as you have
their ID that instead of like being an
IP address it is a public key you can I
create a connection to that pier and
then do a TLS like and check just like
do a crypto challenge and you know that
you're talking to the right process you
know that's like from all of the piers
in the network you are talking to the
right one so okay so what are the things
like this network VIP see here can be
very a tragedy like not every machine
can might have the same capabilities and
because of that we built sleep you to
appear to be very modular you don't have
to buy in to every single module every
single time where you can like use
different periodic mechanisms different
content rogering mechanisms different
transports even and but the primitives
say the same it sounds like dial to this
pier which as is public key and only
peer-to-peer will do like it's best
effort to find using the mechanisms you
provided ly two so you go from a network
that only a physical links to a hyper
connected graph with virtual links to
like an iPod connected graph we have
boundaries you can now have like browser
nodes dialing to server nodes that the
browser only speaks WebRTC and the
server only speaks TCP but you can find
a nose in the middle path that speaks
both party CNT CP and you can have that
no tree late for you or you can even go
into IOT where some devices simply don't
have like the full TCP stack even like
they just have some this radio protocol
that like no one else is fixed so they
really need some kind of realized some
kind of proxy and since they use the
same
authentication mechanism you can find a
way to dial to that process to the
network and then validate that you're
talking with the right device it's
pretty powerful okay how am i doing on
time 20 minutes so far cool so I want to
show you I PFS and how it works let's
see if this goes wrong cool any
questions so far feel like i might just
bursting information sounds good okay so
I PFS installed already in this machine
and when you install I PFS you get like
this really nice CLI that's a bunch of
commands like to add files maybe I can
like can you read good enough here okay
connect some some basic commands like 12
files to cut a file to get the file you
can have some data structure commands
like to write your own blocks and then
like you have this demon demon comment
which physically spawns a demon that's
going to connect to the rest of the
network when judicial eyes I see if the
network doesn't fill me by the way I
brought like my own router just in case
let's make sure let's see okay what's
working so the demon is ready right so
now I have like the I PFS demon which is
a kind of this gateway to the entire PFS
network i can see that i'm already
connecting to other peers right now i
have like three piers I just like used
discovery mechanisms to find other peers
on a network some of them might be here
on this network some of them might be
completely on different networks doesn't
matter and this this list will grow over
time as this node gets more and more
peer so let's do some basic stuff it's
like adds some files to it okay so I
enter the file and what happened here
like it tells me all the content ash
like the content address of that file is
this hash here so now I can do simple
things like cutting that hash you caught
my foul back or I can use the local
gateway
to see the foul that I just added to
other BFS they're cool so I'm seeing the
same file or I can't even use the global
IP FS network to resolve that file for
me what is happening here when I'm doing
this and I'm going to ipf SI yo I'm
accessing a IP fest no that's one a
server somewhere and I'm telling I want
to retrieve this edge and that Nell will
like query the network query HD fine
where that content is stored which is
this machine dial to this machine and
get the content from me itself that's
pretty fast like of course like we are
just transferring four characters but it
was pretty fast about the fact that like
it just found this note pretty quickly
so let's make it interesting you can
like use it to transfer any kind of
files from video to images and one of
the things that you take for granted is
that like this content ash will not
change so if I move this content from
this machine to another machine if you
still be the same edge so each time you
add something by PFS or each time you
fetch something from my PFS you become
also see that a provider of the health
content so if some of you done all of
this file right now when I went away the
other peers could unload that content
from your machine without having even to
ask me cool so let's set of an image to
the two this network
all right and image is going to take
more time let's make sure them 12 here
you can see the DPO is already increased
I follow way more peers on the network
here here's the image again like we just
passed the entire file and now all of
you are on the permanent 12 like you
have a photo of you that's like this
link will be unique forever you know
like if you if the image still lives on
the network and you have the link you'll
be able to find it this one month on the
pics of scam cool all right so what can
we do this more interesting ok so I have
any multiple file storage i know i can
transfer files from one point to another
i know that i don't have to worry where
the foul is living i don't have to worry
where the machine is because I've
process addressing i don't know i don't
have to worry aware them the file waves
because just like figures out for me so
what can we do with it and for that i
want to show you an app that we have be
building a chat app that uses these
ideas as primitives to offer us a slack
/ ret like experience without needing
any central service and that is orbit so
I see some of you have laptops some of
you don't if you want to be part of this
demo if you want to be part of this demo
I can tweet this ash pretty quickly will
that work for you wouldn't that be the
best way
I see some people shaking heads pixels
scam tweeting this ash in this sash
you'll find like this app here there's a
version for Darwin a pro Darwin for mac
OS and one for linux sorry Windows users
will we are working on it and you can
connect to the Wi-Fi by connecting to
the interplanetary network which one the
password is interplanetary all lowercase
well I'm while you're doing that I know
that some of you already have the app
installed so I'm just going to launch it
and show what is it doing it's called
orbit just put my name ok I'm going to
choose a channel you see like very
familiar interface let's like big pixels
pixels can fix those pixels ok cool so
now I'm on this channel right and now
more people here are like joining this
channel it's like standard like IRC can
speak hey ok so more people here as you
own just enter again like I want to make
sure that everyone understand what's
going on here I just like launched fully
distributed application at offers chat
there is no central server server like
linking as together we are just finding
ourselves through the IP fast Network
and we are getting this really nice chat
experience through and thing talty our
duties complete free replica data types
where we just like model the data in a
way that like as soon as i get these
messages I know how to sort them I know
how to order them think like operational
transform like Google Docs version 2 and
I can do more stuff right I can do like
I can drop a video I can drop a video
and the video we streamed like like
people don't have to know the video
beforehand they can be streamed video
from their machine
I can i drop a picture are you getting
the video
out of the gift can I click it are you
sure you want like okay seriously chill
vendre alright cool did you play the
video I can play the video my machine
but it's on fire like interesting
because I have them video in my machine
it's more interesting when you play the
video in your machines because you'll
see like I PFS streaming real video and
like you can stream 4k video really fast
because the video gets chunked and you
can like seek to the video because I I
just like need to fetch the blocks that
I need again I just checked the file in
several parts and now i'm just like
reading the blog that i want i don't
have to like download the entire thing
and I catch more people download the
video more people are sitting the video
it is cool feel like I see some faces of
Barry like surprised ok cool yeah so
this one went to the demos I cannot show
more ik fast in action after the talk I
have some something more just to finish
it let's go back to presentation mode I
will leave the chat open you can like
still join as I continued my cover my
presentation cool ok so we saw I PFS
transferring files and we saw a PFS
dressing like images video you can build
real-time distributed applications using
a DFS primitives there's people that are
using these just like for video
distribution and streaming without
having it like this fancy chal AB there
is people that use I PFS for legal
documents because you have this Merkel
linking it's like secure links so you
know that like no one has tempered the
link a cuny like each day as change then
like you know someone i change the
document so it's not valid anymore
there's people that I car doing sides
just to lowes pictures you can go to I
PFS pics it's pretty interesting there's
people that like are moving 3d models
around because they are so big they
really need a a protocol that's really
fast to transfer data let people doing
the games of course like this is
minecraft it's not like a game when I
PFS but it could be
people transferring like scientific data
and like papers people like hosting
blogs and well entire websites in fact
if you go to ipf sio and all the
websites from my PFS they are being
ousted on my PFS there is no servers
behind and there's like to the latest
google apps as you saw one this is
another one cool okay one more thing
which is I pld I wanted to mention this
during this house is still something
kind of recent we have been working on
it for the last year it is still under
deployment on our network but it's going
to be something very transformative in
now we deal with data in our
applications I peel these stands for the
interplanetary linked data and what it
means is like as I said before I PFS
Merkel forest you can create any kind of
Michael's data structure on a PFS but we
need interpolate are linked data we can
make I PFS host any kind of weather data
structure natively like you don't have
to cope with our own format like you can
just bring me tyrion blocks the Bitcoin
blockchain get be tolerant and I just
resolve them using a PFS as you would
resolve an ikea visage as you feel
resolve and I PFS path and it's it
creates this transformation where we
stop any nice internet of data and we
start having this internet of data
structures this is really important
because like if you think all of these
api is over the web of these services
what they are doing is just like
transforming data to data and like each
of these IP eyes have their own like
interface and like developed developers
I've also always have to pay the cost of
I can just any other API works and is
showing all that system works and what
is what it is doing but like when you
have this internet already structures
you find a canonical way to do these
transformations that like you just have
the network that has the data and you
can tell the network I want to view on
top of this data don't like don't tell
me don't tell me the data just send me
the view and this is thanks to the
content identifier which kind of like an
iteration over the colored address
before we are like ashes to link to
content and
we are using content identifiers that
not only gives us the ash so we know the
value that we are receiving but we also
know that the type of the contact
through this multi codec us you cannot
see that well but like the red line is a
multi codec that describes what is the
data type that we are fetching so and
will I pld as I was saying like you'll
be able to like selectors
transformations and views imagine like
being able to issue a query to the the
PFS network where you say I just want
these nodes there's like follow these
criteria and you just special East nodes
I want these nodes to be transformed to
this other view and I just want to patch
this other view and this can be applied
over any kind of data structure yours
the ones that are probably doesn't
matter cool it's really exciting there's
already prototypes available you can
play with them it's some deployed on the
main network but there's a lot of like
this pack is finalized can read the spec
and you can understand how it works and
you can play with the prototypes okay
last one of the list the interplanetary
community so is building all of these
crazy madness peer-to-peer we have a
really large community like right now we
have like more than 350 people coming
and like contributing with ideas
reviewing specification submitting
patches to code participating even in
our own management process if you go to
betta goetta calm such a PFS you will
find everything from our own process
management like our sprints like our egg
outcalls our public like you can join
any of these calls and be part of the
guy I PFS endeavor or the Jessup if s1
or the whip it appear or even like
proposed and hang out over a topic
that's of your interest and then you
want to build something with and will
accommodate it and like with this we get
a lot of people to come to the same area
and I collaborate on this shared
research and one of my favorite places
to hang out now there's just this repo
that started as like something simple
something that we was just like writing
some ideas we have then we ended to
build in the future but it grew to
something much more so if you go to I
PFS / notes you'll find all sorts of
issues that people open say
I want to build a system with this
requirement so I know about the web of
trust how can we apply the web of trust
I PFS or I want to put n p.m. on I PFS
how can it work and n p.m. on a PFS is a
very interesting case it has more than
like 50 comments and you see all these
people from different companies
different organizations coming to the
same Gaeta thread it is like better than
the mailing list and it's like linking
to other people and notifying other
people that might be interested and like
suddenly after like 50 comments we are
the thing that I put the entire game on
I PFS and now you cannot install modules
even if you are a fine which is pretty
cool I definitely again everything that
we build that this community build is a
mighty Isis open source everything is
there we welcome everyone to participate
in to ask questions we are still
improving a lot in the documentation but
yeah if you find something that you
don't understand if you always welcome
to open an issue or just appear on the
RSC channel 13 knows found I BFS and it
will be more than happy to explain you
to answer your questions so yeah that's
what i have and i hope you enjoyed the
presentation thank you
alright so time for questions I believe
we are questionnaire one hi it should
yeah a gig in the air hey first of all
congratulations like I I knew of I bffs
before and I think it's awesome and
thank you that this is a like a mile
long question and it is like I've seen a
lot of a lot of people like using I PFS
for for the front end of EVM Depp's like
the ethereum theriyum depth like ours I
was once roaming through through the
list of the depths and I encountered
like a dark market like the kind of like
Silk Road and such mm-hmm that was like
asking myself if I accessed it like
through I PFS and I had I was a cedar of
their files like would I be liable for
something that can happen I understand
so I should repeat the question right so
the question is if you down low I fuse I
DFS to access bad bit yeah of any kind
if you'll become wiggle wiggle
irresponsible for those benefits and the
answer is if you download web bits if
it's true I PFS HTTP TCP whatever name
protocol and if you are serving them
making yourself exposed to the network
saying you're serving them you're always
like wiggle wiggle II binded to like bit
you are one of the persons that are
serving those bad bits to the network it
doesn't matter if you type the effects
so the thing is like when you are using
a DFS by default right now if you access
something it's going to be cached
locally so if someone asks you you have
those bad bits and like he is going to
serve from your machine but you have the
ability to say I don't want to serve
these ashes to the network you might use
I PFS just as I kept you like like you
just use a key FS to download the
content but you don't like serve it to
the network and that has other use cases
they may imagine mobile you don't want
mobile like you don't know and I PFS or
you don't want a mobile phone to become
a full a PFS know that like it's serving
like terabytes of data because it will
run out of your IQ to exhaust your
battery really quickly so you want to
have clients there's no up to access the
network and know how to connect and I
could just selectively share some of the
files so yeah like if you are not alone
in bed bits then like it's kind of like
your responsibility anyway we like the
FSU have the primitives to control what
you are sharing it doesn't even have to
be bad bits right like you might have a
family album that you want to share with
your family but you don't want the
entire webs we know about it like you
some pictures from like and in a
supplication you did and you you want to
say only these notes only these peer IDs
public keys again everyone get
certificated are able to download these
bits from it once again look
congratulation clue thank you more
questions
hi I was thinking that this makes a lot
of sense for static data images videos
and so on but I was thinking how this
can apply to more traditional web apps
think of facebook for instance because
when we are accessing facebook we are
accessing more or less a shared code
base in database as well it's not that
simple but we're all accessing the same
thing but if you take these literally in
you have a base on Mars and you are
disconnected from Earth yeah you can't
access the same code base or the same
database how would these web apps you
have already shown orbit which is more
dynamic than just just simple static
data but how these work for traditional
web apps and how would companies have to
change the way that they approach
building a web app in order to make it
interplanetary yeah so the question was
how to build dynamic apps on I PFS and
now can Network over an immutable
otherwise so back again on the example
of orbit this is a chat app and it's
fully dynamic what is using and they
need is this module that we you can
check it out of rb/db and that'll be the
big offers your primitives I get input
that you are used to have access to one
another the key value store and it looks
pretty simple at the top but what's
doing underneath is like just receiving
all these data events that come from
several sources and getting like
ordering those events and like exposing
the the final state of that value to you
like you do get on a key with a value
but the value at you're getting access
to is not something that was just stored
in the machine it's something that was
coalesced from several events at happen
on several machines and I as soon as
like you replicate this data over the
machines everyone gets the same final
view like instead of like you having to
have the work of doing the coalescing
yourself like to do the merge yourself
in mention like the Google Docs like you
go a lot you are used to just like right
you know is that completely syncing over
the wire and that you can see other
people typing it is
using something else he our duties
Google Docs is operational transforms
this is using charities which is like
operational transforms version 2 it's
something that's like more restrict and
gives you a stronger guarantees of all
the data is going to be replicated and
now the final site will actually be the
same so you can build an entire facebook
news field using this as well because
the data was just like wow s and for the
application developer like the web
developer that's used to get like a get
and put API they'll get the same API but
like I PFS is doing all the hard work of
a converging these data events this is a
sincere question
[Music]
mm-hmm
it seems like whatever
yeah yeah think about like a
so you definitely have to build your own
semantics for your own web app much
think think of this as like a database
that's not hosted anywhere you just know
that's like data being created and you
know because like orbit for example the
reason why it syncs so quickly is
because I PFS also offers pops up so we
are publishing on these channel pixels
and all the nodes that are interested on
this channel will get like these events
they will get all these messages one by
one and then you know for sure using see
our duties that are independently of the
order that you get these messages is
that events everyone will see the same
final state so now you can do this these
for a news feed as well or it you should
not use like a single key value store or
single key value for your entire state
of your application you should just have
several key key value pairs and create a
semantics on top of that but it'll be
like would you like to give an example
of an app that you are thinking right
now yeah
why not yeah yeah yeah yeah okay got it
got it yeah it's just something like
when you start to a database you don't
notify people that there is new data you
create something on the side saying hey
like someone sent you a message and you
can use for example pops up for that
like I can subscribe to my own username
and then like everyone that publishes
something to me just publishes something
on that topic with my username and then
i sees i'm subscribing to it I get that
event I get that notification and then I
can fetch the data related to the
notification for hands cool so one more
I'll a bit silly really related to me
this question like you had some picture
of the Internet of Things I think it
it's kind of how does it apply how can
you use it for the Internet of Things
programs like you have this pub sub
system you have multiple devices that
are really publishing a lot of different
data yeah and you can consume that from
the drb database so how can I PFS work
for the Internet of Things yeah so the
idea or the goal is to make sure that
the protocol the primitives are getting
resolving these ashes connecting to
other nodes are designed so that means
that like you can build an app that runs
on the browser and then you can like
port it up and I make it running a OS
powerful device that still running the
same language that you robbed the
application for the browser of course
but like I PFS going to do the hard work
of like taking for example in the
browser you just support WebRTC HTTP and
web sockets that's like the transport
that you have you cannot have anything
else but in like a native application
you have like the full network stack you
can do whatever every transported there
were ever
existed and you can like move this
browser application to lady one and I
just switch swap the transports web RTC
to some other transport and for the
application it will still do like I want
to dial to this pier dial by the public
key you will not have to change your
code base at all like if you will still
be the same application the same
language the same primitives if you want
to go now pour this application that's
running on the desktop to an Internet of
Things device which for example the
transport that it has available is only
boot like the only thing that that thing
supports is booted you cannot do
anything at all more you can do anything
else then you just like swap the TCP
protocol and you put the Bluetooth one
and the primitives for your app will
still be the same so you can just like
at this poor runtime freedom mounting on
top of a PFS because the network
problems get solved by you by having
these very modular transports this
modular network primitives that expose
very well-defined interfaces so that you
cannot expel them out back and forth
without breaking all your application is
developed of course like if you have if
you swap your app from a browser or from
a desktop to an Internet of Things
device and then like every device that
that data that device is connected only
speaks with it meaning that there is no
middle where there is a device that
speaks for example vcp and booted then
like you cannot access to the rest of
the network because you are just you are
isolated from the rest of the network if
you have no common bridge to access to
talk with the rest under network to just
not find the rest of the notes but as
soon as you put a note there and it's
like very exciting right like you ready
snow you say ok this this is a disjoint
network it doesn't have access to the
rest of internet and I'm going to put
this note here that speaks babu to ten
eyck tcp and i'm suddenly all these
nodes that are accessible to the network
and now the network's the nodes in the
network can access this note LOL ok
thanks
more questions okay one more
there one that the base is running on
the notes it's just yeah the other ways
as a replica the the node is a client
and instead of at the same time easy
sorry again the node is a client in the
server at the same time we don't use
this distinguishing okay yeah it's like
a full speak support protocol rights
reads and like sends events about the
data that was changed the other nodes
okay cool so you have a database of four
key values and yeah push push yeah yeah
so is there anything else any other
database that exists on top of it there
there is another experiments i was just
like showing this one are btp because
it's the one that like these app is
using but again it's a foul storage
layer you can build whatever otherwise
you want and this one is just like
smarter because it knows how to transfer
the changes and I talked to Chloe as
these changes so that's like instead of
anything several other bases that then
you have to synchronize just like
synchronize it for you just call Isis
did I that exists on the several
databases in several notes for you yes
okay yeah so it writes in several
different the internals is that our
rights into several different dashes and
then it takes that yeah like each other
than they're saying right each rail is
going to be different ash so each time
you start a value like each time you
start a value or you did a value it's
going to be always a different ass and
then you broadcast the network saying
hey network that are interested for this
namespace from this otherwise there was
a change there was something that
happened and that change as this ash and
then the other node does the makes a
decision all right oh I'm interested in
these changes so now I'm going to fetch
the change from the network which means
like you have this pub sub layer it's
like very thin in very fast because just
like transferring this metadata and then
the nodes make the decision oh I want to
get this data so and because it's the
node getting the data it can get the
data from the nose next to it or from a
no that's like very far
so as more people start replicating it
fast the faster it gets but they're like
once it gets all of the the events that
all the things that happen then I
basically paste them onto this orbit eV
and it does like the crdt magic that
then when you do the next yet you know
we are going to get the final site final
value after all the changes happen that
happen okay for questions see you have
seven minutes hi David I wasn't sure
exactly where the line was between lib
p2p and ni PFS so I was wondering it is
the PTP pili about discovering and
communicating between nodes and
therefore might be useful to any
networking application or does it use
some of the things that i PF the unique
features of I PFS like data so yeah so
the question is can people usually
peer-to-peer buy them bike without using
I PFS and if there is other applications
using a beautiful already so giving the
full context like we were building this
network stack for I PFS because it is
very common for everyone that's doing
peer-to-peer to like build a new network
protocol because like there is a lot of
problems in the network like traversing
Nats discovering L&L doing the routing
it's really like it's really hard
problem actually and after we started
building these things and I exist yet
such ambitious goals are like running on
the browser running on iit running on
all sorts of devices we started making
it modular and when we started making it
module we started realizing like we can
like easily expand and i commend the
capabilities of you to hear this might
be interested in for other groups that
are building peer-to-peer applications
so we are kind of like promoted with
peer-to-peer to become it's like full
standalone project and now it's
something that I PFF's uses but like we
Peter Peter also as a wife of itself
it's kind of like one of the first class
projects that we build right now for
example one of the things we shows us to
two weeks ago in DEFCON 2 in China was
the helium no
running on top of reputed beer so right
now with helium uses a custom protocol
that developed how r l bx that enables
them to also those things like that
reversal and stream multiplexing but
they cannot run in helium notes on the
browser and we upgraded the tvm notes to
you sleepy beer and we showed and if you
know running completely on the browser
pretty exciting like you add literally a
URL that you loathe and you download
this JavaScript and if suddenly you are
running this peer-to-peer disappear
application that can run smart contracts
on it's like global computer network and
there is more people for example matrix
matrix of argh he's also looking into
lipids appear because I right now
they're blocker is that they have to ask
every user to oust a server to be there
central point to connect to the rest of
the network and weep you to appear again
they can just like closed a JavaScript
wall and I have the entire app working
so they are also very interested and
there's more people like doing
experiments with it so yes and we have
an implementation in go and then other
in JavaScript there is a start in rust
Swift Python and Java but those are not
as mature we invest a lot of time in the
JavaScript one and they go on thank you
any other question
all right thank you everyone this is
awesome super excited to be here I hope
that we get some quarter confession yeah